

===== SolutionsForEoC-Chap11.pdf | Page 1 =====

Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 11 Solutions 
Copyright © 2022 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
Chapter 11 Solutions 
Key Terms Quiz 
1. Kerberos 
2. Role-based access control (RBAC) 
3. Transitive trust 
4. Mandatory access control (MAC) 
5. Single sign-on (SSO) 
6. HMAC-based One-Time Password (HOTP) or Time-based One-Time Password (TOTP) 
7. False positive. It’s telling you there’s something wrong (not an authorized fingerprint) when 
there isn’t really anything wrong (you are in fact authorized). This is a false positive; just like 
when you scan a system and it tells you there are issues when there really aren’t any. 
8. mutual authentication 
9. Attribute-based access control (ABAC) 
10. basic authentication 
Multiple-Choice Quiz 
1. D. Authentication is commonly performed with passwords (something you know), tokens 
(something you have), and biometrics (such as fingerprints). 
2. A. Your supervisor just defined the false rejection rate (FRR) for your system, which is the 
level of false positives, or rejections, that are going to be allowed in the system. In this case, 
your supervisor is willing to accept one false rejection for every 50 attempts. See comments 
earlier in the chapter on false positives, false negatives, FAR, and FRR. 
3. D. Kerberos uses ticket-granting servers to manage the issuance of tickets granting various 
permissions on the system. 
4. A. RADIUS has been officially assigned UDP port 1812 for RADIUS Authentication and 
port 1813 for RADIUS Accounting by the Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANA). 



===== SolutionsForEoC-Chap11.pdf | Page 2 =====

Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 11 Solutions 
Copyright © 2022 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
However, previously, ports 1645 (authentication) and 1646 (accounting) were used 
unofficially and became the default ports assigned by many RADIUS client/server 
implementations of the time. The tradition of using 1645 and 1646 for backward 
compatibility continues to this day. For this reason, many RADIUS server implementations 
monitor both sets of UDP ports for RADIUS requests. Microsoft RADIUS servers default to 
1812 and 1813, but Cisco devices default to the traditional 1645 and 1646 ports. 
5. C. Under mandatory access control (MAC), each piece of information and every system 
resource (files, devices, networks, and so on) is labeled with its sensitivity level. 
6. C. The Time-based One-Time Password (TOTP) algorithm is a specific implementation of an 
HOTP that uses a secret key with a current timestamp to generate a one-time password. 
7. A. OpenID and OAuth are typically used together, yet have different purposes. OpenID is 
used for authentication, whereas OAuth is used for authorization. 
8. B. Kerberos works using tickets. A ticket-granting ticket is one type of ticket obtained from 
the authentication server. 
9. D. PPTP uses TCP port 1723 to establish communications, so this port must be open across a 
firewall for PPTP to function correctly. 
10. D. L2TP uses UDP port 1701 to establish communications, so this port must be open across a 
firewall for L2TP to function correctly. 
Essay Quiz 
1. This answer should include a basic discussion of Linux file permissions. For students who 
are not familiar with Linux, this chapter contained some basic information, such as the 
following: 
• Linux permissions are usually divided into three main parts: 
• Owner permissions (read, write, and execute) 
• Group permissions (read, write, and execute) 
• World permissions (read, write, and execute) 



===== SolutionsForEoC-Chap11.pdf | Page 3 =====

Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 11 Solutions 
Copyright © 2022 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
• Linux permissions are usually displayed as a string of nine characters (rwx rwx rwx), 
with owner permissions in the first three characters, group permissions in the next three, 
and world permissions in the final three. 
2. Authentication is the process by which a user confirms their identity by some means. It 
answers only the question of whether the person is who they claimed to be when the 
identification process was completed. Authorization, on the other hand, grants specific 
permissions based on the privileges held by the account that is authenticated. Generally, you 
must authenticate before you are authorized to perform any actions; otherwise, any 
authorization would be for an unknown user. 
 
