

===== SolutionsForEoC-Chap15.pdf | Page 1 =====

Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 15 Solutions 
Copyright © 2022 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
Chapter 15 Solutions 
Key Terms Quiz 
1. spoofing 
2. backdoor 
3. on-path/man-in-the-middle 
4. SYN flood 
5. sequence number 
6. DNS kiting 
7. spyware 
8. denial-of-service (DoS) attack 
9. birthday attack 
10. sniffing 
Multiple-Choice Quiz 
1. B. A SYN flood attack involves launching a large number of SYN packets at a system. In 
TCP, the response to this is a SYN/ACK, and the system then waits for an ACK to complete 
the three-way handshake. If no ACK is received, the system will wait until a timeout occurs, 
and then it will release the connection. If enough SYN packets are received (requesting that 
communication be set up), the system will fill up and not process any more requests. This is a 
type of DoS attack. 
2. C. Sniffing consists of a person simply listening to all traffic on a network. It takes advantage 
of the friendly nature of the network, in which systems are only supposed to grab and 
examine packets that are destined to them. Sniffing looks at all packets traveling across the 
network. 
3. A. One form of spoofing attack attempts to take advantage of the trusted relationship that 
may exist between two systems. This trusted relationship could mean that users on one 



===== SolutionsForEoC-Chap15.pdf | Page 2 =====

Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 15 Solutions 
Copyright © 2022 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
system will not be required to authenticate themselves when accessing the other system; the 
second system trusts the first to have performed any necessary authentication. If packets are 
formed that claim to have come from one of the trusted systems, the target can be fooled into 
performing actions as if an authorized user had sent them. 
4. C. This is the description of a replay attack. 
5. D. Rootkits have almost unlimited power over an infected system. They can cloak 
themselves from detection and hide their true nature. 
6. C. This is a description of social engineering. The term authenticated/white-hat hacking is 
often used to refer to authorized penetration tests on a network. 
7. B. Ransomware is a class of malware that encrypts specific files—preventing them from 
being used. 
8. C. To minimize the avenues of attack, you need to limit the information that can be obtained 
and the number of services you offer. The more services that are available, the greater the 
number of possible avenues that can be exploited. It is important to install patches, but this 
doesn’t minimize the avenues; it protects specific avenues from attack. The use of firewalls 
and intrusion detection systems is important, but monitoring them doesn’t aid in minimizing 
the avenues of attack (though a properly administered firewall can help to limit the exposure 
of your network). 
9. D. War-driving is an attempt to locate wireless networks whose access area extends into 
publicly accessible space. 
10. D. This defines a time bomb. The more general term logic bomb is sometimes used, but this 
term usually refers to a piece of software that is set to execute when some specified event 
occurs. When that event is a date or time, we often refer to the malicious code as a time 
bomb. 
Essay Quiz 
1. Both techniques are used to provide information on what systems are currently accessible. 
Ping sweeps are used to identify active IP addresses; port scans provide information on active 
ports and potential applications running on the machine. 



===== SolutionsForEoC-Chap15.pdf | Page 3 =====

Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 15 Solutions 
Copyright © 2022 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
2. Two steps should be covered in the student’s essay response: 
• Use and keep major antivirus software up to date. 
• Keep the operating system and all application software patched and up to date. 
Lab Projects 
Lab Project 15.1 
Students should experiment by starting with simple dictionary words and moving up through 
complex random sequences and see how long it takes password-cracking software to crack 
passwords. Times will vary from seconds to weeks, depending on machine speed, complexity, 
and the password cracker chosen. The key is to show how relatively easy it is to crack simple 
passwords. 
Lab Project 15.2 
Nmap can be used to scan and map out a local area network. It can also identify the machine’s 
OS and some applications. Students should try these options, but only in a lab environment, not 
across the Internet from their home ISP. 
