

===== SolutionsForEoC-Chap13.pdf | Page 1 =====

Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 13 Solutions 
Copyright © 2022 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
Chapter 13 Solutions 
Key Terms Quiz 
1. protocol analyzer 
2. false positive 
3. honeypot or honeynet 
4. content-based signature 
5. anomaly detection model 
6. Port mirroring 
7. analysis engine 
8. Banner grabbing 
9. Context-based signature 
10. Suricata 
Multiple-Choice Quiz 
1. A. The two main types of intrusion detection systems are network based and host based. 
Network-based systems monitor network connections for suspicious traffic. Host-based 
systems reside on an individual system and monitor that system for suspicious or malicious 
activity. 
2. B. The two main types of IDS signatures are context based and content based. Context-based 
signatures examine traffic and how that traffic fits into the other traffic around it. A port scan 
is a good example of a context-based signature. A content-based signature looks at what is 
inside the traffic, such as the contents of a specific packet. 
3. D. A passive, host-based IDS runs on the local system, cannot interfere with traffic or 
activity on that system, and would have access to local system logs. 
4. B. A network-based IDS typically cannot decrypt and read encrypted traffic. This is one of 
the principal weaknesses of network-based intrusion detection systems. 



===== SolutionsForEoC-Chap13.pdf | Page 2 =====

Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 13 Solutions 
Copyright © 2022 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
5. C. An active IDS can perform all the functions of a passive IDS (monitoring, alerting, 
reporting, and so on), with the added ability of responding to suspected attacks with 
capabilities such as sending TCP reset messages to the source and destination IP addresses. 
6. A. Honeypots are designed to attract attackers by providing what appear to be easy, inviting 
targets. The honeypot collects and records the activity of attackers and their tools. 
7. C. Banner grabbing is the sending of a protocol across a known port and examining the 
return signal as to the protocol in order to determine the version of the service that is 
responding. 
8. B. Preventative IDSs are designed to stop malicious activity from occurring. 
9. C. IPS stands for intrusion prevention system. 
10. D. A protocol analyzer is a very flexible tool and can be used for network traffic analysis, 
statistics collection, and monitoring and identification of suspicious or malicious traffic. 
Essay Quiz 
1. The response for the initial portion of this question, “discuss the differences between an 
anomaly-based and a misuse-based detection model,” should include the following elements: 
Anomaly-based models: 
• Tend to be more complex than misuse based 
• Must know what “normal” behavior is in order to classify abnormal behavior 
• Must have the ability to adjust the “normal behavior” baseline to accommodate new 
systems and applications 
• Tend to have a high number of false positives 
• Typically are not restricted to just a specific set of signatures 
Misuse-based models: 
• Are easier to implement and more common 
• Look for known patterns of suspicious or malicious activity 
• Are very reliant on a developed signature set 



===== SolutionsForEoC-Chap13.pdf | Page 3 =====

Principles of Computer Security, Sixth Edition 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 13 Solutions 
Copyright © 2022 by McGraw Hill. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
• Will likely not see a new attack if there is no signature to match it 
The remaining two questions are essentially opinion based, and the answer should explain the 
choices between the two models and provide supporting details as to why they would choose 
one model over the other. 
2. The key items in the chapter are intrusion detection systems, both host and network based. 
These can be compared and contrasted. There are also intrusion prevention systems, and 
these can be compared and contrasted to the IDS types already mentioned. The third major 
element is honeypots/nets. 
 
